January 26
2024 it ordered Israel inter area to I
quote take effective measures to prevent
the destruction and ensure the
preservation of evidence related to
allegations of Acts within the scope of
Article 2 and article 3 of the genocide
convention end of
quote in the present
circumstances the court is also of the
view that in order to preserve evidence
related to allegations of Acts falling
within the scope of Article 2 and
article 3 of the genocide convention
Israel must take effective measures to
ensure the unimpeded access to the Gaza
Strip of any Commission of inquiry fact
finding Mission or other investigative
body mandated by competent organs of the
United Nations to investigate
allegations of genocide
the court also considers that the
catastrophic situation in
Gaza confirmed the need for the
immediate and effective implementation
of the measures indicated in its orders
of January 26 2024 and March 28th
2024 which are applicable throughout the
Gaza Strip including in
Rafa in these circumstances the court
finds it necessary to reaffirm the
measures indicated in those
orders in so doing the court wishes to
emphasize that the measure indicated in
paragraph
512a of its order of March 28
2024 requiring I quote the unhindered
provision at scale by all concerned of
urgently needed basic services and
humanitarian assistance and of course
necessitates that the respondent
maintain open land Crossing points and
in particular the Rafa
Crossing in view of the specific
provisional measures it has decided to
indicate the court considered that
Israel must submit a report to the court
on all measures taken to give effect to
this order within 1 month from the date
of this
order the report so provider will then
be communicated to South Africa which
shall be given the opportunity to submit
to the court its commments
thereon the court recalls that its
orders on provisional measures under
article 41 of the statute have binding
effect and thus create International
legal obligations for any party to whom
the provisional measures are
addressed the court underlined that the
present order is without prejudice to
any findings concerning the respondent's
compliance with the orders of January 26
2024 and March 28
2024 in its orders of January 26 2024
and March 28th
2024 the court expressed its grave
concern over the fate of the hostages
abducted during the attacks in Israel on
October 7th in 2023 and H since then by
Hamas and other armed group and called
for their immediate and unconditional
release the court finds it deeply
troubling that many of these hostages
remain in captivity and reiterate its SC
for their immediate and unconditional
release I shall Now read out the
operative part of the order for these
reasons the court by 13 V to
two reaffirms the provisional measures
indicated in its orders of 26th January
2024 and March 28th
2024 which should be immediately and
effectively
implemented in favor president Salam
judges Abraham
YF bandari iwasawa Mal charwell Brown
Gomez Roo Cleveland oresco
CL against vice president subu judge
adok
Barak two indicates the following
provisional measures the states of
Israel shall in Conformity with its
obligation under the convention on the
provent prevention and Punishment of the
crime of genocide and in view of the
worsening conditions of Life faced by
civilian in the ra
Governor a by 13 VES to
two immediately hold its military
offensive and any other action in the
RAF Governor which may inflict on the
Palestinian group in Gaza conditions of
life that would bring about its physical
destruction in whole or in part
in favor president Salam judges Abraham
YF bandari iwazawa
n Charlesworth BR gome Roo Cleveland
oresco against vice president cind judge
adok
Barak by 13 votes to two